---
icon: fas fa-lightbulb
order: 2
---
List of publications :
> - [On Extracting Legal Arguments](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-032-04590-4_7). In: Casini, G., Dundua, B., Kutsia, T. (eds) Logics in Artificial Intelligence. JELIA 2025. Lecture Notes in Computer Science(), vol 16094. Springer, Cham.

 Here is the current resume of my PhD :

> Today's applications deal with large volumes of data due to the increasing capacity to collect information. Data mining is a field that focuses on the study of knowledge extraction processes from large volumes of data. In general, algorithms in this field allow the discovery of knowledge by exploiting predicates of interest. The last decade has seen a significant amount of work using methods from artificial intelligence to perform certain tasks in data mining (SAT, CSP, ASP, preferences) [3, 2]. It is worth noticing that these works are mainly concerned with solving data mining problems by formulations in declarative frameworks. Despite their contribution to many domains, knowledge extraction processes in data mining may encounter major problems, including: 1: the insufficiency of predicates of interest in explaining the relevance of the extracted knowledge, and 2: the handling of the various forms of inconsistency that may exist between this knowledge. Therefore, given the importance of these problems in artificial intelligence, we are convinced that the integration of specific reasoning approaches from artificial intelligence for the improvement of extraction processes constitutes an important research problem. Argumentation is a reasoning process that can have a double role of explanation and inconsistency handling [1]. It is a formal framework based on the construction of arguments (explanations), the determination of attack relations (i.e., conflicts) between them, and the evaluation and selection of acceptable arguments. The presence of preferences also helps solve conflicts between arguments [5]. The goal of this thesis is the integration of preference-based argumentation in data mining in order to address the two problems previously mentioned, namely explicability and inconsistency handling. More precisely, the aim is to (1) study and compare existing works on the use of preferences in argumentation and adapt them to data mining problems, (2) develop efficient algorithms for extracting explainable and non-conflicting knowledge, (3) use multi-agent modeling and simulation techniques [6] to measure the efficiency and satisfiability of reasoning modes in preference-based argumentation used in item 2. The simulation will be used in particular to constitute a virtual laboratory intended to overcome the difficulties related to the implementation of the experiments required in points (1) and (2). Thus, on the basis of a modeling of the agent behaviors and their interactions, this approach will allow to elaborate, in various contexts, the corpus of preferences and reasoning which will be at the heart of the experimental plans used to evaluate the existing approaches, as well as the relevance of the proposals which will be made. Applications of this work are decision support systems (recommendation systems and explainable AI). Preliminary results on the integration of argumentation in data mining have been obtained in [4].